Description:

In our treatment of the physics of fluid flows we have added a summary of basic ideas underpinning Direct Numerical Simulations and Numerical Analysis. 
This course thoroughly introduce the coding based methods for the numerical problems and differential equations. 
The course is divided into three parts, the first half covers basic theoretical and physical descriptions of Fundamental Equations and Modern CFD. 
The second half will cover the transformation of differential equations into the algebraic equations, differencing methods and discretization methods. 
The last part contain the numerical analysis in the form of MATLAB and C++ coding. 
Coding based problems are tackled well in this course, so that the student of different backgrounds will learn more about related domains.

If you are beginner to Computational Fluid Dynamics please go through our course Fundamentals of CFD with Hands on Experience.

The successful completion of this course (Theory + Practical) would help students in achieving the following objectives, which are:

To provide a sound background in the mathematics, physics of numerical analysis and computational fluid
To conduct an effective CFD simulation of an unsteady turbulent
To understand the underlying concept of Navier Stroke Equation
To build a basic understanding of the equations used in different turbulence
Will have a strong understanding about the software which will be used in this
To develop the understanding by applying mathematical models to simple realizable configurations along with practical
To apprehend the applications/solutions of models developed in the advanced course in industrial applications using analytical as well as numerical
Modules:
Turbulence and its modelling is distributed into two modules which includes the basic concepts of turbulent flow and how to encounter that flow using different models.

Week 1.

Fundamental Equations:
Continuity Equation
Momentum Equation
Energy Equation
One/Two/Multi equation turbulence models
Mathematical Models:
Differential Equations
Laplace Transformations
Finite Difference Methodology
Taylor Series
Discretization Form
Week 2-3-4

Numerical Coding:
Introduction to Navier Stroke Equation
Diffusion Flow Form
1D & 2D diffusion equations
Analytical solution (by hands)
Numerical Solution (Via Matlab)
Diffusion and Convection Flow Form
1D-2D diffusion & convection flow equations
Analytical solution (by hands)
Numerical Solution (Via Matlab)
Pressure and Velocity Coupling
1D & 2D Pressure and velocity
Analytical solution (by hands)
Numerical Solution (Via Matlab)
Unsteady Flow Form
1D & 2D unsteady flow form
Analytical solution (by hands)
Numerical Solution (Via Matlab)
Who Should Attend?
This course provides a stimulation and vibrant learning environment with interaction between students of different background and regions of globe. The course is ideal for those who are:

Involved in or would like to learn and perform the simulation of complex turbulent flows and need detailed best practice
Researchers/students who plan to or are currently study in domain of fluid flow
Experienced engineers looking for a refresher course on the physics of fluid flow and current cutting-edge modelling techniques with a particular focus on unsteady
 

Applied/Theory:
70% Application/30% Theory

 

Web Address:
Computational Fluid Dynamics Laboratory



Web Contents:
Syllabus, Lectures Notes and Simulated Case Studies.

Case Studies:
Each module have its case studies which include the related simulation.

Textbooks:
Versteeg, H.K. and Malalasekera, W., 2007. An introduction to computational fluid dynamics: the finite volume method. Pearson education.
Reference Books:
Pope, S.B., 2001. Turbulent
Mathieu, J. and Scott, J., 2000. An introduction to turbulent flow. Cambridge University Press.
Software Taught:
The following software will be covered in the live sessions

CAD Modeler
ANSYS ICEM
ANSYS FLUENT
TECPLOT
Microsoft Excel/MATLAB
Instructor:
Fahad Nawaz – Course Director
(MS Fluid Mechanics and Computational Fluid Dynamics)

Concessions:
10% discount when register 3 or more delegates, from the same organization at the same time



Computational Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
CFD LAB PVT LTD
Fluid Simulations Company 
https://cfdlab.pk/



